# Telco Project README

For this project, I go over different predictive models in order to find the best one to predict customer churn on a publicly available telecommmunication service dataset.

For the first part of the project, I had to clean the Telco dataset which meant imputing missing values from the given data. There were some users who didn't have a recorded total amount charged recorded since they didn't stay with the telecommunication service for more than 1 month. I imputed the amount charged for a single month on the service since it's generally assumed that people have to pay for 1 month of a service before being able to use it. In addition, I found the 10 most important features in predicting user churn using the random forest classifier's feature importances attribute. Feature importances is a measure for the random forest classifier that records which features in the dataset were most the most characteristic in splitting users that churned from didn't churn. Features such as gender and contract type were among the most important features.

The dataset has 7043 user profiles included and a column that indicates whether that user has churned. For the second part of the project, in order to predict customer churn, I started working with classic machine learning techniques like logistic regression, random tree classification, and random forest classification. The best results among these techniques came from logistic regression whose F1 score reached 63% on 82% accuracy. While logistic regression beat out random forest classification, the recall ability of logistic regression stood at only 58%. Recall is probably the most important factor in measuring model performance for this project since the overall goal is to create a predictive model that can identify users at risk of churning and incentivize them to stay with the Telco service. Having a 58% recall ability implies that 42% of the users that churned would not be given an incentive to stay. 

Although  logistic regression generally outperformed the other two models, it's not advisable to use logistic regression with an expanding user base since logistic regression overgeneralizes relationships between different features. Due to the dynamic nature of a telecommunication service, random forest classification should be the preferred predictive model since it's much more flexible in observing trends provided more data and features to predict on.

In the third installment of this project, I expanded my discussion to deep learning based neural networks. I wanted to see how a neural network would perform given the data provided. The baseline model of the neural network which consists of weighted input features feeding into a sigmoid function for prediction performed best among all tested predictive models. On the holdout set, the baseline neural network achieved 78% recall which is the highest recall score that I was able to achieve. The Telco company would reach a good majority of their users at risk of churning if they were to implement the baseline neural network model on the backend of their incentivization program. 

However, through this entire project, the one serious limitation in running a predictive model on this data was the amount of data provided in the public dataset. The dataset only provided the profiles for 1870 users that churned and 5174 users that didn't churn. After scrolling through the confusion matrices of all the predictive models that I tested for this project, it became apparent to me that the predictive models were able to find users that didn't churn with confidence. For random forest classification, the total F1 score for users that didn't churn was 87%. Comparing this F1 to the 58% F1 for users that did churn and it's apparent that predictive models perform barely above the level of guessing because the models can't find consistent trends among users that churned with the limited amount of data provided.

So, in conclusion, while the predictive models for both classical machine learning and deep learning perform better than simple 50-50 guessing to predict user churn, it would be advisable to collect more data to build a more robust predictive model that can improve predictive performance. The data can be collected both by increasing the amount of information gathered per user or by collecting churn information on more users overall. 

Increasing the amount of information gathered per user probably won't be possible without implementing a survey that all users in the dataset must fill out. If users don't fill out the survey, then there will actually be less users to predict on since there won't be a reliable way to impute the missing information. Since Telco is an active company, the best bet to gathering more data would be to record churn for users that are still subscribed to Telco's services and users that end up leaving over time. The random forest classifier would have greater predictive power and offer better churn predictions in the short term after gathering more data. Implementing a deep learning model would require more architecture iterations and a lot more data before reaching a model that would outperform the random forest.
